<<Project Start>>






San Francisco Planning Department : August 11, 2011






















































































Planning Department












Home
 
/


Public Hearings

			
				/
			
				
Planning Commission

			
				/
			
				
Minutes

			
				/
			
				
2011


/ August 11, 2011












August 11, 2011












larger font size


smaller font size


font size


text only


text
























New Page 1






 


SAN FRANCISCO


PLANNING COMMISSION




Meeting Minutes






 





Commission Chambers - Room 400





City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place




Thursday, August 
11, 2011





12:00 PM





Regular Meeting




 





COMMISSIONERS PRESENT: Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Fong, Moore, Sugaya





COMMISSIONERS ABSENT:  Borden





 





THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY PRESIDENT OLAGUE AT 12:16 PM





 





STAFF IN ATTENDANCE: John Rahaim â Director of Planning, Sophie Hayward, Michael 
Jacinto, Joy Navarrete, and Linda Avery â Commission Secretary




 


 


A.
           

CONSIDERATION OF ITEMS PROPOSED FOR CONTINUANCE



 


The Commission 
will consider a request for continuance to a later date.  The Commission may 
choose to continue the item to the date proposed below, to continue the item to 
another date, or to hear the item on this calendar.




            




None




 




B.
        

COMMISSIONERSâ QUESTIONS AND MATTERS
 




 




Adoption of 
Commission Minutes
 
â Charter Section 4.104 requires all commissioners to vote yes or no on all 
matters unless that commissioner is excused by a vote of the Commission.  
Commissioners may not be automatically excluded from a vote on the minutes 
because they did not attend the meeting.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




 




1.         
Consideration of Adoption:




 




·
        




Draft Minutes of Regular Meeting of June 23, 2011




 





SPEAKERS:     None





ACTION:           Approved




AYES: 
             Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Fong, Moore, Sugaya




ABSENT:          
Borden
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>





 





 




2.         
Commission Comments/Questions




·
        


Inquiries/Announcements
.  
Without discussion, at this time Commissioners may make announcements or 
inquiries of staff regarding various matters of interest to the Commissioner(s).




·
        


Future Meetings/Agendas
. 
 At this time, the Commission may discuss and take action to set the date of a 
Special Meeting and/or determine those items that could be placed on the agenda 
of the next meeting and other future meetings of the Planning Commission.





 





Commissioner Miguel
: 
 





I noted an interesting article with the title "Medical Office Play." You 
remember the trying goal -- 

triangle matter that was before us. This is the property directly across from 
16th Street. 

It is in Mission Bay. It is four large blocks â lots on 17th and 16th Streets.


It is being discussed within the department and everything.  But they are 
thinking of putting in a medical office building. While it could possibly be an 
excellent adjunct to what is happening in Mission Bay, remember back when the 
Parnassus Campus of UCS was buying up residences and putting in housing and 
small medical offices until the neighborhood stopped them from doing that, and 
while certain medical related facilities are undoubtedly necessary, it is 
possibly something we should be cautious about. 





Commissioner Sugaya
:






This is an ad (held up a picture) that shows the clarity of the glass by showing 
landscaping through the glass, which does wonders for birds.  I will pass this 
off to the bird people, whoever they are. I do not remember the website, but 
this does show the outline of an owl that has flown into a window.





President Olague
: 
  Thank you for that. Can you keep us posted on when this will be at the Board? 
I think some of us may want to go and give support to the Departmentâs 
recommendations.



 


C.         DIRECTORâS REPORT
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




 




3.
            

Directorâs Announcements




 




Director Rahaim:





I want to give you a short update on staff working with Wholefoods. Did you get 
a memo in your packet today? The bottom line is the neighbors are not completely 
happy with the situation, but we do believe they are now in compliance.  There 
are two main issues that I think were part of your conditions of approval:  one 
was the hours of loading and the other is the staging of trucks on the street. 
Your conditions did allow them to load between 4:00 A.M. And 7:00 A.M.. We 
believe 4:00 A.M. Is the time when the conditions would allow that. Primarily 
because we did not want to stage trucks on the street during traffic hours, and 
because when they are using the building without making modifications, the 
trucks have to go through the parking lot. It is very difficult, if not 
impossible to load during store hours, so, that is the challenge we have. It is 
a very early hour, admittedly, to load, but that was consistent with the 
Commissionâs conditions. We did have the Department of Public Health test for 
the noise conditions, and we believe they are in compliance at this time.
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




 




4.         Review 
of Past Weekâs Events at the Board of Supervisors, Board of Appeals, and 
Historic Preservation Commission.




 





BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:




No 
meeting this week




 





BOARD OF APPEALS:




John 
Rahaim â Acting Zoning Administrator





There are three items Scott thought would be of interest to the Commission from 
last night's hearing.

One is that the Board presented an 
award to Lawrence Kornfield for his years 
of service
. As you know, he is serving as the Special Assistant to the City 
Administrator working on the Earthquake Safety Program at the Mayor's Office. 
Second has to do with 
2344 Market Street, the site of the Trigger Bar
. 
You heard the code enforcement case, the Board heard a jurisdiction request 
related to the notice violation and the penalty issued on May 7, 2010. Trigger 
requested the Board to reduce the penalty currently at $50,000. They are able to 
go to the Board to reduce that penalty, but in this case, the Board voted to 
deny the jurisdiction request and the NOB has been upheld and the penalty 
remains in effect. The third item has to do with 
1727 Union Street, the 
Brickyard Restaurant
, the Board heard that appeal on June 22, and continued 
to allow the petition holder to meet with neighbors and address noise concerns. 
The permit holder did not meet with neighbors and did not submit alternatives 
until August 3. The Board addressed that with them - that they did not meet with 
neighbors in a timely fashion. They voted to continue the item until September 
21 to allow more time to meet with neighbors. 




 





HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
:




No 
meeting this week




 




D.         
GENERAL


PUBLIC COMMENT â 15 MINUTES





 




At this time, 
members of the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the 
public that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except 
agenda items.  With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the 
Commission will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting.  Each 
member of the public may address the Commission for up to three minutes.




 




Ms. Harrison




Re:       Urged the commission to work with 
others on the need for a re-entry program in the Bayview and throughout the city




 


E.
            

REGULAR CALENDAR
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>



 



5.         





2011.0656TZ
                                                     
            



(S. HAYWARD: (415) 558-6372)  







Amendments to the Planning Code Sections 602.10, 607.1, 608, adding Section 
608.16, and amending Sectional Map SSD of the Zoning Map
:

Establishing the City Center Special 
Sign District [Board File No. 11-0448]
. 


Ordin
a
nce introduced by Supervisor Farrell amending Planning Code 
Sections 602.10 (Definitions), 607.1 (Neighborhood Commercial Districts), 608 
(Special Sign Districts), adding Section 608.16 (âCity Center Special Sign 
Districtâ), and amending
  


Sectional Map SSD of the 
Zoning Map to establish the âCity Center Special Sign Districtâ 



encompassing the real property bounded by Masonic Avenue, Geary Boulevard, Lyon 
Street, and OâFarrell Street (Assessorâs Block 1094, Lot 001), to allow 
additional projecting signs, freestanding identifying and directional signs and 
to modify existing controls on business wall signs; adopting findings, including 
environmental findings, Planning Code Section 302 findings, and findings of 
consistency with the General Plan and the priority policies of Planning Code 
Section 101.




Preliminary Recommendation: Approval with Modifications




(Continued from Regular Meeting of July 28, 2011)




 





SPEAKERS:     Jim Reuben, representing Project Sponsor, Ms. Mills, Project 
Architect, Ms. Harrison, Melba Lew, Jim Walters





ACTION:           Approved as amended




AYES: 
             Olague, Miguel, Antonini, Fong, Moore, Sugaya




ABSENT:          
Borden





RESOLUTION:   18428
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




 





6.        




2009.0291E & 2010.0275E
                                                 
(M. JACINTO: (415) 575-9033)





SAN FRANCISCO MUSEUM OF MODERN ART EXPANSION / FIRESTATION RELOCATION AND 
HOUSING PROJECT
 
â 
Public Hearing on the Draft Environmental Impact Report:
 The proposed 
projects include the following: 1) on the block bounded by Third, Mission, New 
Montgomery, and Howard Streets in the Yerba Buena Redevelopment Area, an up-to 
200-foot-tall, 235,000-square-foot expansion of the San Francisco Museum of 
Modern Art at 151 Third Street (Assessor Block 3722, Lot 78), involving 
demolition of the structure at 670 Howard Street (Assessor Block 3722, Lot 27) 
and San Francisco Fire Department Station No. 1 and at 676 Howard Street 
(Assessor Block 3722, Lot 28); and 2) on Folsom Street between Fifth and Fourth 
Streets in the East SoMa Plan, development of the property at 935 Folsom Street 
(Assessor Block 3753, Lot 140) with a 3-bay, 2-story replacement fire station 
fronting Folsom Street and a 13-unit, 45-foot-tall residential building fronting 
Shipley Street. The existing, vacant 935 Folsom Street industrial building would 
be demolished.  




Preliminary 
Recommendation: No Action Required


Note: written comments will be accepted at 
the Planning Departmentâs offices until the close of business on August 25,
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2011.


 





SPEAKERS:     Deb Self, Nan Connell-Henson, Liz  Bridges, Nancy Tomlison, Foster 
Weeks





ACTION:           Public hearing on the Draft EIR â No Action Required
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>




 





            7.         







2010.0493E
                                                       
         (J. NAVARRETE: (415) 575-9040)





The 34th Americaâs Cup and James R. Herman Cruise Terminal and Northeast Wharf 
Plaza Projects
 Draft Environmental Impact Report




-
 
Public Hearing on the Draft Environmental Impact Report
:  The City and County of 
San Francisco (CCSF) and the Americaâs Cup Event Authority propose to host the 
34th Americaâs Cup (AC34) sailing races in San Francisco Bay  in 2012 and in
<<Project End>>
<<Project Start>>
2013.  Venues proposed for the AC34 events are piers, water areas, and 
facilities managed by the Port of San Francisco (Port) including: Piers (Piers 
19, 19½, 23, 27-29½, 26, 28, 30-32, and 80), water basins/water areas (Piers 
19-23, 23-27, 29‑31, 14-22½, 26‑28, 28-30, and 32-36), and Seawall Lot 330. 
Various other venues are proposed for spectator‑related activities, some of 
which are under the jurisdiction of other City, state or federal agencies, 
including Crissy Field, Marina Green, Fort Mason, Aquatic Park, Alcatraz Island, 
Fort Baker Pier at Cavallo Point (near Sausalito), SF Civic Center, Union 
Square, and Justin Herman Plaza. The event venues would include team bases and 
operations, support space, media operations, hospitality services, commercial 
space, entertainment and spectator areas, and temporary berthing and mooring 
facilities for race-related and spectator vessels. The Port proposes the 
development of Pier 27 as the James R. Herman Cruise Terminal and Northeast 
Wharf Plaza, which would be phased to allow Americaâs Cup Village uses at Piers 
27-29, including an initial phase of the cruise terminal building, for the 2013 
AC34. The Cruise Terminal project would involve demolition of the existing Pier 
27 shed, a portion of the Pier 29 shed, and Pier 27 Annex Building, and 
construction of a 91,200 square foot, two-story cruise terminal building along 
Pier 27. The Northeast Wharf Plaza would provide a 2½-acre open space at the 
south end of Pier 27, fronting along The Embarcadero promenade including a 
multi-use recreational space and ancillary structures for commercial and 
recreational services. 





Preliminary Recommendation: No Action Required.


Note: written comments will be accepted at the Planning Departmentâs offices 
until the close of business on August 25, 2011.


 





SPEAKERS:     Sam Ferguson, Andrew OâMahony, Douglas Overman, Buffy Baumann, 
Will Paowning, Mike Savage, Saul Bloom, Jane Connors, Robin Rome, Jesse 
Czelusta, Megan Sullivan, Donald G. Harrison, Cathy Bump, Steven R. Krolik, 
Nancy Shanahan, Peter Straus, Michael Lynes, Brian Gilbert, Ken Coren, Diane 
Walton, Lee Hammack, Polly Rose, Keith Howell, Kevin Carroll, Kimberly Pross, 
Reuben Hechanova, George Robin, Jeffrey Anderson, Daniel Osborne, J.E. Illick, 
Jan Blum, Dennis McKenzie, Teri Shore, Kate Coleman, Foster Weeks





ACTION:           Public hearing on the Draft EIR â No Action Required


 


 


 




F.
        

PUBLIC COMMENT





 


At this time, members of 
the public may address the Commission on items of interest to the public that 
are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the Commission except agenda 
items.  With respect to agenda items, your opportunity to address the Commission 
will be afforded when the item is reached in the meeting with one exception.  
When the agenda item has already been reviewed in a public hearing at which 
members of the public were allowed to testify and the Commission has closed the 
public hearing, your opportunity to address the Commission must be exercised 
during the Public Comment portion of the Calendar.  Each member of the public 
may address the Commission for up to three minutes. 




 


The Brown Act forbids a 
commission from taking action or discussing any item not appearing on the posted 
agenda, including those items raised at public comment.  In response to public 
comment, the commission is limited to: 




 




(1)  responding 
to statements made or questions posed by members of the public; or




(2)  requesting 
staff to report back on a matter at a subsequent meeting; or 




(3)
  

directing staff to place the item on a future agenda.  (Government Code 
Section 54954.2(a))




 




None




 


Adjournment
:    3:57 
PM




 




Adopted:          
September 8, 2011




 






Last updated: 9/15/2011 3:16:13 PM
<<Project End>>