I've spent a lot of time thinking about *Abundance*. There are two Abundance Agendas. One is what Klein and Thompson laid out in their book, a rather narrow attempt at redefining the way the Democratic party views a certain set of issues. The other is the hype machine created by their book and the (seemingly) countless reviews, ranging from the fawning (see Noah Smith, Matt Yglesias, etc.) and the damning (see Zephyr Teachout, etc.). 

If you count meta-analysis, there's a lot to *Abundance*. The meta-analysis clearly counts; Klein and Thompson didn't write a self-contained book, but clearly want to take an active role in shaping the Democratic party's future. There's a real opening here; while most Democratic national figures of note are busy resisting Trump, I feel (or at least hope) there's a widespread awareness that mere resistance won't satisfy the electorate in 2028 (though it might in the 2026 midterms). Maybe another time I'll do a deep dive into the (laughably) numerous 2028 potential candidates, but right now I'd argue we could place most of the candidates who have started to develop an ideological plank for 2028 (this would exclude un-ideological candidates like Ossoff, Beshear, or Harris) can be placed on a spectrum between Matt Yglesias/Noah Smith-style centrist Abundance messaging or AOC/Bernie-style fight-the-oligarchy messaging. All this is to say that this *matters*, no matter the daily chaos of the Trump administration. 

This means the argument Thompson and Klein lay out needs to be aggressively interrogated. The main tenets of *Abundance*, to me, are the following:
1. Democrats lost the 2024 election because they didn't implement the policies that Joe Biden passed fast enough (inflation and the electorate's ignorance of what Biden sought to build result from this).
2. Democrats also lost the 2024 election because of the failure of local and state governance in Blue areas, mainly because housing is too expensive in our most productive geographies.
3. Democrats are backwards-looking, they need to be forwards-looking.
4. Democrats need to try to steer the advancement of technology to better humanity's lot, *not* stick their heads in the sand.

Some of those claims are much bolder than they appear, and the empirical evidence Klein and Thompson provide is very uneven. My basic take on these, respectively, are:
1. There's a lot of truth to this; however, Biden's implementation of policy invoked class politics in a way that Klein and Thompson entirely neglect.
2. This is not true; housing affordability was not the proximate caues of Democrats' electoral failures in 2024.
3. Klein and Thompson do no work to show how their preferred policy positions differ substantially from wide, influential swathes of the Democratic party as it currently stands.
4. This is very true and entails an approahc more technologically-focused people need to craft.

In this post, I focus on the most fundamental assumption of these four: the second. This is a critical point, as it is the underlying assumption for *centering* Abundance. If this assumption were to not hold, then Abundance would be nothing but a wonkish set of proposals, a chapter in Demcorats' own "Project 2029", something which Klein and Thompson explicitly do not want their book to become. If it is not true that housing affordability was a prominent factor in determining the 2024 election, then Klein and Thompson have a gaping hole in their agenda. **There can be no future Democratic party agenda which does not address why Democrats lost in 2024.** 

## Causal Mechanisms Linking Housing Affordability to Electoral Outcomes
If we want to causally link failures in housing policy to worse electoral outcomes for Democrats, there are two possible causal mechanisms. Here I prove descriptive evidence which I think demonstrates, at the very least, that the assumption above can't be taken for granted in the fashion that Klein and Thompson do.

The first is that Democratic areas have less electoral significance because of population flows. Specifically, Democratic states have seen less population growth than Republican ones, and so their apportioned share of seats in the House of Representatives is shrinking. This makes 1) winning the presidency, because of the electoral college system, and 2) winning the House more difficult. The latter is a real concern, but one that exists at the margin. The former has no grounding in reality. Nonetheless, each of these two phenomenona are also creating opportunities for Democrats in previously-ruby red states.

The second possible causal mechanism is more salient: voters stay put and are unhappy with how Democrats are governing, meaning their electoral preferences are changing over time. This dissatisfaction with Democratic governance is real and reflected in electoral outcomes, but nearly entirely at the local level and resulting in intra-Democratic shifts in power. In particular, I present evidence that there was nearly no correlation between housing affordability and voting in the 2024 elections, *particularly not in the pivotal swing areas*. Put simply, housing affordability and abundance is not an issue with the salience in national election required to center it in any transformation of the Democratic Party ahead of 2026 and 2028. **We need something more.** 

## Out-Migration
Every 10 years, House district boundaries change along two axes. First, districts are redrawn to match new population distributions within states. Second, districts are reapportioned between states to reflect new population distributions between states. The second matters more than the first because 1) states gerrymander and 2) this affects the electoral college and thus the presidential election.

Because redistricting occurs simultaneously to reapportionment, we can't directly model the counterfactual as to what would happen to control of the House of Representatives if reapportionment doesn't occur. However, we can get a sense by examining the pre- and post-apportionment delegation breakdown of states that either lost or gained a seat. 

Of all states that underwent a change in the number of apportioned seats, in 2021, Democrats held 131 seats and Republicans 107 seats; in 2025, these numbers shift to 128 seats for Democrats and 110 seats for Republicans. Of course, states shifted between 2021 and 2024, but qualitatively it appears that states 