3. 
Consideration of Adoption: 
• Draft Minutes for October 7, 2021 
 
SPEAKERS: 
None 
ACTION: 
Adopted 
AYES: 
Tanner, Diamond, Fung, Imperial, Moore, Koppel 
ABSENT: 
Chan 
 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 21, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 4 of 13 
 
4. 
Commission Comments/Questions 
 
 
 
 
 
President Koppel: 
I just wanted to bring up something quickly. I see, in today’s agenda, we have an item 
dealing with a rail yard study and some transit issues with the CTA. I know we've spoken 
about in the past having a joint hearing with MTA. I think that might be in the works, maybe 
in a couple months or so. I was hoping that when that does happen, we could take up 
informationally just the item of the congestion pricing. Interested to hear what the 
Commissioners might have to say but I have also been hearing some questions and 
comments from the public and the business community as just to what to expect and what 
the timeline is on that. And so, if anyone wants to chime in now that’s fine but definitely, I'd 
like to see that included at a later date. 
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
Interesting that you're saying that. I just yesterday in the paper read that the discussion on 
congestion pricing, particularly folks on Treasure Island is being picked up which makes me 
think that a general update, as you are suggesting, is duly quite timely. Many of the people 
who are on the board do not really have a full background on how that issue came up with 
Treasure Island. First as an isolated phenomenon but it is really a far bigger issue than that. 
 
 
 
 
 
President Koppel: 
 
 
Good idea. 
 
Commissioner Imperial: 
I want to bring up about – first, I wanted to thank Director Hillis for inviting the Commission 
in terms of the Equity in Series. I attended the Equity in Series and the discussion with 
Japantown task force, with Freedom West. I would suggest Director Hillis that in the future 
to extend that invitation to the Commission as well if there's going to be more Equity in 
Series conversation. I really find that kind of conversation actually enlightening in terms of 
the direct response from the community itself and how it also in terms of what is also being 
highlighted in terms of the recommendations or the housing element. So yes, I would 
suggest that in the future to also extend that kind of invitation to the Commission as well.  
 
And another thing that I would also high starting to think about in terms of the budget for 
the Planning Department for the next year is really to look into the connection of Planning 
Department with the Rent Board. I believe from the last, I believe previous Commissioner 
has suggested a position between the Planning Department and the Rent Board, but that 
was never materialized. And that's something that we need to look into. I think we need to 
keep, put that as a priority as well for the next year budget and also put that perhaps under 
the Community Equity division. And also, I would also implore the Planning Department to 
start having training regarding Rent Board or rent control laws or ordinance. What kind 
buildings are being protected, what are the just cause protections. I think we need, the 
Planning Department needs to be informed under whether the city or current division so 
that when we have this kind of projects that are coming in front of us under CUA that we 
are-- that that is part of the CUA findings. I would like to see that in the future. That's my -- 
what I would like to see for the budget for the next year. Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 21, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 5 of 13 
 
I just have a couple comments in response. One, we will make sure that you are all, if you’re 
not already, on the invite list for the Equity in Action series. I agree, Commissioner Imperial, 
this has been tremendously valuable in hearing directly from the community and being able 
to be in dialogue with them. So, we'll make sure you are on those invites.  
 
And we have steadily ramped up our work with the Rent Board. Kate Conner has been 
wonderful in being our liaison to the Rent Board but getting that information to planners as 
they need it for projects because we know these issues are going to come up and you are 
going to ask about it. You should have all the facts about tenant issues in a project that you 
are looking at. So, we've made tremendous strides in that, we're not there yet. So, I agree 
we will look to see if we need to have more resources in the budget and we'll present that 
to you. I just want to let you know too, Robert Collins, who is the director of the Rent Board, 
who has been here before you is leaving. He’s retiring. So, we'll have new leadership to 
develop relationships with at the Rent Board as well.  
 
And Doug Johnson is here. Doug, if you want to say just a few words on that congestion 
pricing because I know that came up at the earlier hearing in October. But we can definitely 
accommodate an info item especially if we’re going to have a joint hearing with MTA -- 
 
 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
Director Hillis if I could, this is a non agendized item and so we can’t have a conversation on 
it. 
 
 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
 
Just quickly yeah. Just some facts.  
 
Doug Johnson, Transportation Planning Manager: 
Thank you for the question. We did reach out to the SFCTA staff after the ConnectSF 
presentation. They indicated that the study is currently paused and would look forward to a 
presentation to you all in the next calendar year. And we can leave it at that. I do think it 
would be a good fit on that joint agenda and we can work on settling that up. 
 
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
Thanks.  
 
 
 
Commissioner Moore: 
I would like to expand on Commissioner Imperial's request for information on tenants etc. 
to include updating us on SRO, SRO protections etc. We are hearing about that but many of 
us are quite unfamiliar what exact rules are applying, what protections are there, both for 
buildings occupied by SRO tenants or individuals. If that could be a part of the expanded-on 
discussion on tenants, I would appreciate it. 
 
 
 
 
 
Jonas P. Ionin, Commission Secretary: 
And I would only remind members of the Commission that regarding the Equity series, we 
do have a cap of three Commissioners per session. So, maybe we can attend those on a 
rotational basis. Otherwise, we enter issues with quorums and public hearings and due 
process.  So, not everyone will be able to attend every event.  
 
 
Rich Hillis, Planning Director: 
 
 
And just to note they are recorded and we'll send you the link to the recording as well. 

San Francisco Planning Commission 
 
Thursday, October 21, 2021 
 
Meeting Minutes 
 
      Page 6 of 13