I've spent a lot of time thinking about *Abundance*. There are two Abundance Agendas. One is what Klein and Thompson laid out in their book, a rather narrow attempt at redefining the way the Democratic party views a certain set of issues. The other is the hype machine created by their book and the (seemingly) countless reviews, ranging from the fawning (see Noah Smith, Matt Yglesias, etc.) and the damning (see Zephyr Teachout, etc.). 

If you count meta-analysis, there's a lot to *Abundance*. The meta-analysis clearly counts; Klein and Thompson didn't write a self-contained book, but clearly want to take an active role in shaping the Democratic party's future. 

## What's in (and not in) Abundance
First, what's actually in *Abundance*? It's a slender book -- not necessarily a bad thing, depending on what Klein and Thompson's goals are. Klein and Thompson start with a vision of utopia, a world "beyond scarcity", a world filled to the brim with green energy, desalinated water, vertical agriculture, shorter workweeks due to AI-enhanced productivity, and the like. They pivot into making the argument that this utopian requires us to unleash abundance. To free our world from the constraints of scarcity we have deliberately placed on ourselves. Instead, they write on page 4, "to have the future we want, we need to build and invent more of what we need". They argue scarcity has resulted from blockages of government processes, the result of "ideological collusion". "Over the course of the twentieth century, America developed a right that fought the government and a left that hobbled it". 

To be sure there's some good stuff here. I think Klein and Thompson pierced a deep sickness in America when they write that "an uncanny economy has emerged in which a secure, middle-class lifestyle receded for many, but the material trappings of middle-class success became affordable to most". Klein and Thompson use this diagnosis to advance a rather futurist argument. In their view, liberals' problems are because they're obsessed with Rawlsian attempts to create justice. These ideas are based on a backwards-looking engineering of society, whereas we need to be concerned with the future we're hurdling towards. They identify five areas in which we should deploy this forward-looking outlook: Grow (housing), Build (combatting climate change/energy/construction), Govern (state capacity), Invent (state support for scientific research), and Deploy (technology).

Klein and Thompson fill each of these chapters with plithy anecodtes and light historical narratives. 

"Grow" is about how degrowth became in-vogue in the 1960s and 1970s, working in tandem with conservatism to halt construction and prevent the proliferation of "America the Ugly". I got the distinct impression Klein and Thompson were working out of their depth here. I've also been reading *Why Nothing Works*, by Marc J. Dunkelman, a book more concerned in historically substantiating its narratives. First, I don't think any de-growth activists would consider their movement ascendant in the course of the last 50 years; in fact, I think it was rather thoroughly defeated by the neoliberal movement obsessed with growth over all other interests. De-growth leftists like Aaron Peskin in San Francisco are the exception, not the rule. I think there is a real question about the divergence between degrowth politics and NIMBYism -- why the former failed miserably and the latter enjoyed rip-roar success, but the reason for this is rather simple. First, as Fischel explains, home owners maximize utility by maintaining house prices. Second, low density living is a normal good. As people's incomes increase (either because they grow older or because they simply prefer low density), demand for low density increases. In this version, local democracy is operating as it should. I'm a vociferous YIMBY, but I think any pro-housing argument needs to vigorously persuade why we should subvert the workings of local democracy to build more housing. 



"Deploy" mostly focuses on the Trump administration's Operation Warp Speed (OWS). Klein and Thompson rightly identify a puzzle: why do both parties not celebrate one of the most notable governmental achievements of recent history? Their answer is that Democrats are loathe to be identified with anything Trump did and that Republicans are now anti-vax. I find this a deeply inadequate explanation. If you argue that OWS-style state interventions can solve a host of scarcity-causing policy bottlenecks (which they do), surely you owe it to the reader to explain why the most successful of these interventions which actually happened in a thoroughly bipartisan way is now an "orphan". 